[KB] Add Grid Inline Form KB (#2110)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-inline-edit-form.md

---

> title: Add inline Telerik Form to the the Grid Rows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Add an Inline Form to a Grid Row
```

> description: How to add inline Telerik Form to the Grid Rows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to add an inline Telerik UI for Blazor Form to a Blazor Grid row.
```

type: how-to
page_title: Add inline Telerik Form to the the Grid Rows
slug: grid-kb-inline-form
position: 
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,inline,form,rows

> res_type: kb

Reviewer: Are there any ticketids that you can reference here?

---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

> I want to add an inline Telerik Form to the Grid rows when I enter edit mode.

Reviewer: Lately, the KB descriptions have been in the following format

```
Some problem\goal statement.

This KB answers the following questions:
* How to...
* How to...
* How to...
```

This format helps with SEO and also helps users identify that the KB matches their own case. Furthermore, we've adopted this format for our latest KB improvements.

My recommendation is to adopt this format and think how to expand the Description a bit. Here's an example, feel free to add to it as needed.

```
My end users need to be able to submit an inline Form from within a Grid row.

This KB answers the following questions:

* How do I show an inline Form when the user enters edit mode in the Grid?
* How do I embed an editable inline Form inside a Grid row?
* How do I create a cancelable inline Form inside a Grid row?
```

Author: I really like the suggestions, I will include them as-is

## Solution

> Add an inline [Telerik Form]({%slug form-overview%}) to the Grid rows by following these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add an inline [Blazor Form]({%slug form-overview%}) to your Grid rows by following these steps:
```

> * Define a [DetailTemplate]({%slug components/grid/features/hierarchy%}).

Reviewer: This seems like a step-by-step procedure. In this case, the recommendation is to go with a numbered list. 

Numbered lists represent procedures where the order of the steps is important.
Unordered lists work for procedures where the order of completing the steps isn't important. 

You can read more about lists [here](https://docs.telerik.com/style-guide/lists).

> * Define a [DetailTemplate]({%slug components/grid/features/hierarchy%}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Define a [`DetailTemplate`]({%slug components/grid/features/hierarchy%}).
```

* Hide the hierarchy expand column with CSS.

> * Use the [SetStateAsync() method]({%slug grid-state%}#setstateasync-examples) to enter and exit edit mode programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the [`SetStateAsync()` method]({%slug grid-state%}#setstateasync-examples) to enter and exit edit mode programmatically.
```

> >tip The Telerik Form works with a cloned instance of the edited/added item to support cancellation. If you cancel the addition or update of an item, you need to delete it from the Grid Data collection.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>tip The Telerik UI for Blazor Form works with a cloned instance of the edited or added item to support cancellation. If you cancel the addition or update of an item, you need to delete it from the Grid data collection.   
```

    private int LastId { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var rnd = new Random();

        for (int i = 1; i <= 5; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new SampleModel()
                {
                    Id = ++LastId,
                    Name = $"Name {LastId}",
                    Price = rnd.Next(1, 100) * 1.23m,
                    Quantity = rnd.Next(0, 1000),
                    StartDate = DateTime.Today.AddDays(-rnd.Next(1, 30)).AddMonths(-rnd.Next(1, 100))
                });
        }
    }

    public class SampleModel
    {
        [Display(AutoGenerateField = false)]
        public int Id { get; set; }
        [Required]
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public decimal Price { get; set; }
        public int Quantity { get; set; }
        public DateTime? StartDate { get; set; }

        public SampleModel Clone()
        {
            return new SampleModel()
                {
                    Id = Id,
                    Name = Name,
                    Price = Price,
                    Quantity = Quantity,
                    StartDate = StartDate
                };
        }
    }
}

> ````

Reviewer: Create a `## See Also` section at the bottom. The bare minimum of links is to the Grid and Form overviews and to their demos (the demos should open in a new window with the `<a href="" target="_blank"></a>` syntax. I would also add a link to the Inline Editing page.

Author: This KB article does not use the built-in editing mechanism of the Grid. So linking Inline Editing docs/demos would be confusing to the user.

---
title: Add an Inline Form to a Grid Row
description: How to add an inline Telerik UI for Blazor Form to a Blazor Grid row.
type: how-to
page_title: Add inline Telerik Form to the the Grid Rows
slug: grid-kb-inline-form
position: 

> tags: telerik,blazor,grid,inline,form,rows

Reviewer 2: Tags should make sense out of context.

```suggestion
tags: telerik,blazor,grid,inline,form
```

res_type: kb
ticketid: 1639016
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

My end users need to be able to submit an inline Form from within a Grid row.

This KB answers the following questions:

* How do I show an inline Form when the user enters edit mode in the Grid?
* How do I embed an editable inline Form inside a Grid row?
* How do I create a cancelable inline Form inside a Grid row?

## Solution

Add an inline [Blazor Form]({%slug form-overview%}) to your Grid rows by following these steps:

1. Define a [`DetailTemplate`]({%slug components/grid/features/hierarchy%}).
1. Hide the hierarchy expand column with CSS.

> 1. Use the [`SetStateAsync()` method]({%slug grid-state%}#setstateasync-examples) to enter and exit edit mode programmatically.

Reviewer 2: Better link the relevant KB directly. You can do that with the "enter and ..." part, and link the method to its own documentation. In this case, leave "method" outside the link to better separate the two links.

> >tip The Telerik UI for Blazor Form works with a cloned instance of the edited or added item to support cancellation. If you cancel the addition or update of an item, you need to delete it from the Grid data collection.   

Reviewer 2: I assume you meant this, otherwise it sounds like developers must delete cancelled existing rows.

```suggestion
>tip The Telerik UI for Blazor Form works with a cloned instance of the edited or added item to support cancellation. If you cancel the addition or a new item, you need to delete it from the Grid data collection.   
```

````CSHTML
@using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations

<TelerikGrid @ref="@GridRef"
             Data="@GridData"
             Class="no-expand-column">
    <GridToolBarTemplate>
        <GridCommandButton OnClick="@OnGridAddButtonClick" Icon="@SvgIcon.Plus">Add</GridCommandButton>
    </GridToolBarTemplate>
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(SampleModel.Id)" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(SampleModel.Name)" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(SampleModel.Price)" DisplayFormat="{0:c2}" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(SampleModel.Quantity)" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(SampleModel.StartDate)" DisplayFormat="{0:d}" />
        <GridCommandColumn>
            @{
                var item = (SampleModel)context;
            }

>             <GridCommandButton OnClick="@( () => OnGridEditButtonClick(item) )" Icon="@SvgIcon.Pencil">Edit</GridCommandButton>

Reviewer 2: There is no need for a lambda here. The `OnClick` event of command buttons provides `GridCommandEventArgs` with the item inside. https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/grid/columns/command#the-onclick-handler

                     OnValidSubmit="@OnGridFormValidSubmit"
                     Columns="2"
                     ColumnSpacing="2em">
            <FormValidation>
                <DataAnnotationsValidator />
            </FormValidation>
            <FormButtons>
                <TelerikButton ThemeColor="@ThemeConstants.Button.ThemeColor.Primary"
                               Icon="@SvgIcon.Save">
                    Save
                </TelerikButton>
                <TelerikButton ButtonType="@ButtonType.Button"
                               OnClick="@OnGridFormCancel"
                               Icon="@SvgIcon.Cancel">
                    Cancel
                </TelerikButton>
            </FormButtons>
        </TelerikForm>
    </DetailTemplate>
</TelerikGrid>

<style>
    .no-expand-column .k-hierarchy-col {
        width: 0;
    }

    .no-expand-column .k-hierarchy-cell + .k-table-td,
    .no-expand-column .k-hierarchy-cell + .k-table-th {
        border-left-width: 0;
    }

    .no-expand-column .k-hierarchy-cell > * {
        display: none;
    }

    .no-expand-column .k-detail-row:hover {
        background-color: transparent;

>     }

Reviewer 2: This is no longer necessary in version 6.0.0
https://demos.telerik.com/blazor-ui/grid/hierarchy

</style>

@code {

> #nullable enable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    #nullable enable
```

    private List<SampleModel> GridData { get; set; } = new();

>     private TelerikGrid<SampleModel> GridRef { get; set; } = null!;

Reviewer 2: I used to code like this, but it's not the best way.

```suggestion
    private TelerikGrid<SampleModel>? GridRef { get; set; }
```

... and adjust the rest of the code. You will have to wrap `await GridRef.SetStateAsync(gridState);` in an `if` or use .

        }

        GridData[originalItemIndex] = GridItemInEditMode!;

        var gridState = GridRef.GetState();
        gridState.ExpandedItems = new List<SampleModel>();

        await GridRef.SetStateAsync(gridState);

        GridItemInEditMode = null;
    }

    private async Task OnGridFormCancel()
    {
        if (GridItemInEditMode?.Id == 0)
        {
            var itemIndex = GridData.FindIndex(x => x.Id == 0);
            GridData.RemoveAt(itemIndex);
        }

        var gridState = GridRef.GetState();
        gridState.ExpandedItems = new List<SampleModel>();

        await GridRef.SetStateAsync(gridState);

        GridItemInEditMode = null;
    }

    private int LastId { get; set; }

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var rnd = new Random();

        for (int i = 1; i <= 5; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new SampleModel()
                {
                    Id = ++LastId,
                    Name = $"Name {LastId}",
                    Price = rnd.Next(1, 100) * 1.23m,
                    Quantity = rnd.Next(0, 1000),
                    StartDate = DateTime.Today.AddDays(-rnd.Next(1, 30)).AddMonths(-rnd.Next(1, 100))

>                 });

Reviewer 2: Does VS for Windows really adds one more tab here? VS Mac doesn't do that.

Author: Yes, it was formatted by VS for Windows. I am not sure why.
